#### Official documentation useful links
> Magento checkout is implemented using the UI components. Out of the box, the checkout consists of two steps:
>
> Shipping Information
> Review and Payment Information
> The checkout totals and the corresponding side-bar are only displayed after the first step is completed.
> The only exception is checkout of virtual and/or downloadable products: if there are only these types of products in the shopping cart, checkout is automatically transformed to one-step procedure, because shipping information is not required.
-- [Magento DevDocs - Customize Checkout](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.2/howdoi/checkout/checkout_overview.html)

This chapter has very useful information in the [List of available customizations](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.2/howdoi/checkout/checkout_overview.html) section.

#### Describe how to modify the price calculation process in the shopping cart.

It looks like for price calculation customization next technics can be used:

##### Plugins
1. `Magento\Quote\Model\Quote::addProduct` - type after. Quote item can be given and be modified.
1. `Magento\Checkout\Mode\Cart::addProduct` - type before. If product data should be modified before
being added to the quote object
1. `Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Item\Processor::prepare` - type after. Custom price can be set.

About the 3rd method - use custom price - it is quite controversial, as for me.
The first thing I found is that this param custom_price is filtered out by Magento2 by default from the frontend request params 
to avoid custom price being calculated by next:

Declaration magento_root/vendor/magento/module-checkout/etc/frontend/di.xml ->
```xml
<type name="Magento\Checkout\Model\Cart\RequestInfoFilter">
     <arguments>
         <argument name="filterList" xsi:type="array">
             <item name="form_key" xsi:type="string">form_key</item>
             <item name="custom_price" xsi:type="string">custom_price</item>
         </argument>
     </arguments>
</type>
```    
Filtering: `Magento\Checkout\Model\Cart\RequestInfoFilter::filter`
```php
<?php
    public function filter(\Magento\Framework\DataObject $params)
    {
        foreach ($this->filterList as $filterKey) {
            /** @var string $filterKey */
            if ($params->hasData($filterKey)) {
                $params->unsetData($filterKey);
            }
        }
        return $this;
    }
```
So, originally this ability to add a `custom_price` in a such way is deprecated and can cause troubles. 
For example, I found this PR to Magento 2 where currency issue appeared if `custom_price` is used in frontend area: 
https://github.com/magento/magento2/issues/12493

Also, current implementation can brake the reorder process from admin area if a client’s admins will do reorder because 
the `$request->setCustomPrice($productPrice + $optionPrice);` will overwrite price set by admin for configurator product.
For example, the client’s admin decided to make a reorder with custom price eq to 5.
Current code will change it to product price + option price. Of course, we can say that this situation
is highly impossible but if it will be it can cause a lot of troubles for business flow in a high season.

#### How can you add a custom totals model or modify existing totals models?

As a first step in a custom total creation process, the sales.xml should be added to the customization module.

```xml
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_Sales:etc/sales.xsd">
    <section name="quote">
        <group name="totals">
            <item name="custom_totals" instance="Vendor\Module\Model\Total\CustomTotals" sort_order="500" />
        </group>
    </section>
</config>
```

##### Existed sales.xml configs
* ./vendor/magento/module-bundle/etc/sales.xml
* ./vendor/magento/module-configurable-product/etc/sales.xml
* ./vendor/magento/module-downloadable/etc/sales.xml
* ./vendor/magento/module-grouped-product/etc/sales.xml
* ./vendor/magento/module-quote/etc/sales.xml
* ./vendor/magento/module-sales/etc/sales.xml
* ./vendor/magento/module-sales-rule/etc/sales.xml
* ./vendor/magento/module-tax/etc/sales.xml
* ./vendor/magento/module-weee/etc/sales.xml

On a next step a custom's total models should be implemented. It should extend [Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total\AbstractTotal](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.2-develop/app/code/Magento/Quote/Model/Quote/Address/Total/AbstractTotal.php)
and implement 2 methods: [collect](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.2-develop/app/code/Magento/Quote/Model/Quote/Address/Total/AbstractTotal.php#L91) and [fetch](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.2-develop/app/code/Magento/Quote/Model/Quote/Address/Total/AbstractTotal.php#L114).

###### collect()
Method params:
* `\Magento\Quote\Model\Quote $quote`,
* `\Magento\Quote\Api\Data\ShippingAssignmentInterface $shippingAssignment`,
* `\Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total $total`

Return: `$this`

###### fetch()
Method params:
* `\Magento\Quote\Model\Quote $quote`,
* `\Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total $total`

Return: `array` or `null`

To show custom total at checkout page and cart page 2 layouts should be added: 
* `checkout_cart_index.xml`
* `checkout_index_index.xml`

In those layouts required js component and templates should be defined to show custom totals. They should
have 2 methods: `getPureValue` and `getVAlue`
